Title: Whites, Darks, and Pinks
Date: 2004-06-13 22:54
Category: Family
Tags: Lauryn, Sophia

###The joys of two daughters

 As much as I would have loved to have been writing over the past few
days, well, we've been swamped. I've had lots to write about but no time
to even lay my fingers to a keyboard.

 However, today I finally had time to do some much needed laundry. (As
you can see, if replenishing the pile of infant clothes moves from the
"must do" list to the "free time" list, you know your priorities have
shifted and that you've been rather occupied.) I grabbed the most
evident laundry, especially the ones needing scrubbing, and headed
outside to our new laundry room. (New to us of course - the washing
machine is old and the dryer isn't much newer.)

 As I started the washer, and separated the laundry, I soon realized
that we are now subject to three color categories. Whites, Darks, and
Pinks.

 Two girls, and especially one infant daughter (4 weeks old tomorrow),
generate lots of cute laundry. Cute, ***pink*** laundry. (Well, its cute
other than the times that it has diaper-leak spots that need endless
scrubbing.) The three piles were about even in size - maybe a bit heavy
on the darks, but my jeans occupy much more space than 10 burp clothes
and a dozen *tiny* socks.

 Pink laundry smells nice too (mostly). Babies, up until about the age
of 2, I'd say, put off a non-diaper (non-burp) odour that conveys
everything cute and sweet about babies. I swear that sometime I'm going
to take a worn (but clean) sleeper and double zip-lock it so that when
I'm going through the struggles of teenage girls, I can open the bag and
take a whiff of newborn goodness.

 And now I'm off to bed. Goodnight.
