Title: If you haven't got your health...
Date: 2004-06-29 23:45
Category: Family
Tags: Madge, Sophia, Lauryn

The four of us moved down here to San Diego three weeks (to the day)
after Sophia was born. Things weren't going fantastic with the little
one by the time we left, but the timing worked well for my employer and
this adventure had to start sometime.

 I hope to document the day of travel before I forget it all, but I'd
like to work back to that day a bit with this post.

 Before Lauryn was born, we studied the pros/cons of nursing vs formula
quite heavily. It was a struggle to feed Lauryn at first, including a
late night trip by Madge, with Mennipus' help, to the hospital because
of a severe case of [mastitis](http://www.medela.com/NewFiles/mastitis.html). After a few weeks, things settled down
and nursing turned out to be rather convenient (not to mention the
health and emotional positives for Lauryn).

 We weren't going to change our routine with Sophia. But things didn't
go very well this time around. We were able to better manage the first
few days, but Sophia wouldn't latch and her electric equivalent (the
proxy nurser) needed to always be at hand. Thus the prospect of
traveling only three weeks after her birth, with these complications
persisting, was definitely a daunting adventure.

 However, we don't often turn down a challenge, and we survived the day
of travel. Just four days later, we were weary and facing a bleak
situation.

 Friday night, just when things in the feeding department seemed to be
turning a corner, Madge started feeling achy and feverish. We both
immediately recognized these as mastitis symptoms. But this time we were
in a foreign country, with the expectation of having health care
coverage, but nothing to prove (even to ourselves) that we wouldn't be
facing huge medical bills because of the infection.

 So I pumped Madge as full of [ibuprofen](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ibuprofen) as I could and did my best to
let her rest – hoping that somehow things could improve on their own.

They didn't.

 That night I laid, half-awake, trying to imagine how to get out of this
awful situation. "We could fly back, and just forget living here," my
fatigued brain said amongst other equally unrealistic solutions.
Saturday morning Lauryn and I awoke early, and Sophia and Madge slept.
Hoping that Madge would awaken feeling better, I was rebuked by her
reminder late that morning that, "These things don't *just* get better."

"I need to see a Doctor."

 I went into panic mode, being forced to deal with a situation that I
dreaded and that caused me much anguish. Immediately I realized that I
had **no one** to turn to. The internet didn't give me any health
hotline numbers to call for advice, and I didn't have time to waste. A
co-worker, Dennis, who had also moved down for the project at work, was
my only hope. I didn't know his home phone number, but luckily I'd asked
him about his weekend plans, and knew that he was going to be in the
office that morning.

 So I sent him an email. I could have tried calling his extension, as
its one off from my own, but I figured that if he were in the office,
he'd check his email before checking his voicemail (and its permanent
queue of 15 messages). Within minutes he called. I'm thankful for his
wisdom and his assistance. Basically he told me to forget the potential
expense and get the situation taken care of – that it was foolishness to
risk Madge's health. He also volunteered to look around the office for
our project manager's home phone (or cell) number and that he'd even
call and find out what he could as far as my coverage was concerned (and
what I should say and do).

 He left voice-mails with at least two people before getting a live
body, and promptly called back saying that we should simply head to the
nearest hospital, explain our symptoms (but not raise any alarms) and to
be armed with our Visa card (just in case).

 I knew there was a hospital around the corner (and another just on the
other side of the freeway), so we packed up the kids and made our first
outing: a trip to the hospital. We were surprised that the walk-in
emergency was empty. Madge wrote her symptoms on a card, and dropped it
in a box. A triage nurse retrieved it from the other side of the wall in
a few minutes, and soon she was evaluated. Sophia slept and Lauryn ate a
two-slice peanut butter and jam sandwich (the whole thing - crust and
all.)

 After being evaluated, and prior to seeing a doctor, payment had to be
arranged. I could remember enough from the healthcare forms I'd filled
out two days prior that I was able to convince the administrator-guy
that we *should* have coverage even though we'd not yet received cards.
Madge saw a doctor and our home-diagnosis was confirmed. A simple
antibiotic prescription would be sufficient and we were done.

 In the meantime, Lauryn's diaper had leaked and she'd started into her
second PB&J sandwich (which she later finished!).

 Based on the "Primary Care Physician" that I'd chosen (two days
earlier), the Administrator-guy warned that our insurance plan might try
and get out of paying for our visit because we'd gone to a hospital to
which our Dr. was not affiliated! Ugh.

 We'd survived that far only to learn that the hospital that we *should*
have gone to was **right next door**. Not only are there two hospitals
within a 5-minute drive of each other, there are actually **three**
within that distance. (I later discovered that the Dr. *is* affiliated
with the hospital we picked, and we haven't heard anything from the
insurance people yet.)

 Basically things worked out well despite all my trepidation and agony.
The business nature of medical service down here *does* mean that the
emergency wait is nice and short, and that the people are very friendly
and accommodating (as they **want** your business). But honestly,
**three** hospitals within shouting distance seems a bit excessive.

 Oh, wait, we now live in the land of excess. I forgot for a second...