Title: Easy Memorization
Date: 2004-06-02 10:10
Category: Family
Tags: Lauryn

Bedtime with Lauryn is a ritual, with **no** deviations. Well, there are
variations, but only Lauryn can make changes to the routine â€“ changes
that Madge and I try to avoid. She's fallen, somewhat, into the practice
of trying to stretch out teeth-brushing, story-reading, and song-singing
as long as possible. Most nights it all goes well, but there's always
**some** sort of challenge.

 Two stories, two songs, and a lullabye, then the music box and lights
out. That's the pattern.

![Lauryn Dogpark](images/Lauryn_Dogpark-tm.jpg "Playing "Hole Hole" and "Bush Bush"")

Lately, instead of me reading and singing everything, she's taken to
splitting the reading tasks between the two of us. Sometimes I need to
"help," but surprisingly she does quite well.

 Naturally, at being just a couple of weeks short of 3 years, she most
certainly **cannot** read, but in reading mostly the same 20 books over
the past 2 years every night, several have been committed to memory.

 Tonight it was [Piglet's New Friend](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0736420533/qid=1086156291/sr=1-1/ref=sr_1_1/103-4742650-4994225?v=glance&s=books), a board book with a moveable
Piglet. The words on each page were perfectly recited, word for word, as
pages were turn just at the right time (and Piglet was moved
appropriately). However, she surprised me tonight when it was time to
sing.

 We used to just sing regular songs. While I was in San Diego, the
ritual changed (according to her demands) so that we now sing made-up
songs that are about the two stories we just read. Tonight, as we each
read one story, we each also **had** to sing a song.

 After singing mine, and struggling to remember what we had just read
about (including enough details to sufficiently satisfy her song
criteria so I don't have to sing it again, better), Lauryn followed up
by flopping around on her bed, reciting the entire story, word for word
(except the last page).

###Piglet's New Friend

>"Who do we have here?" Pooh asked, unpacking his picnic basket.

>"It's a caterpillar," Piglet exclaimed.
 
>"Maybe he'd like to try some honey," Pooh suggested.

>"Careful, Pooh!" Piglet warned. "Honey is too sticky for caterpillars."

>Piglet spotted his new friend on Eeyore's lunch.

>"Maybe he'd like to try some of my thistles," Eeyore offered.

> "I think thistles may be too prickly for caterpillars," Piglet
explained.

> "Piglet, my kite's stuck!" moaned Roo.

> "If I can squeeze through these bushes, maybe I can free it," said
Piglet.

> "Look!" said Roo. "The caterpillar wants to help, too!"

> The hungry little caterpillar began munching the green leaves.

> "You've found some lunch!" Piglet said. "Now I can have mine."

 Kid's books often don't have the most compelling of stories, in my
opinion, but evidently this one is worth remembering. (grin)

 Also, while its been a few months since she convinced us of her ability
to remember stories (and songs), I always assumed that the recollection
of the exact words was keyed to the images on a specific page (or the
tune of a song). I've probably read this story to her about half the
number of times that she's heard it, and while I could tell you the gist
of it, I would never remember at which point the book says "Piglet
warned." Yet with no cues, her young and sponge-of-a mind has captured
and can recall this funny book.

 If you're a parent, or will be a parent, or every spend time around a
young child (which should include about everyone), never forget how much
impact your speech and actions can have on that child. Little "pitchers"
have big ears, so don't expect them to speak or act differently than
you, their example, and don't underestimate their capacity to learn and
comprehend.