Title: Tina
Date: 2005-02-04 08:44
Category: Life
Tags: Dave, Brenda

We have the sweetest neighbour here in San Diego.  "Grandma Lee"
recently turned 95 and lives all alone next door.  Her son is
estranged and she hasn't heard from him in years, and her daughter lives
in Colorado.

 Like many of the elderly people I've lived around, she's a rather
independent soul even at such a frail age.  We used to see her
shuffle past our door and drive off in her car to get groceries or head
to the bank,  but recently her car hasn't moved from its parking
spot.  Just before her birthday, she asked Madge to take her to the
DMV so that she could renew her driver's license.  She managed to
pass the test and could drive her car, but since receiving her new
license, I think she's moved her car only one time – she says the
battery is dead.

 No one visits her.  No one came for Christmas.  Since her car
wasn't working, Madge has intercepted her, with the help of Lauryn, as
she tried to walk to either the bank or grocery store – neither
of which is reasonably close for someone of her age.  In fact, her
bank is more than a mile away and on the other side of a deep
valley.  Since Madge caught her trying to walk to the grocery store,
her daughter has been ordering (over the internet) groceries to be
delivered, but she still needs to go to the bank once a month.

 Madge was busy with two sick kids yesterday – Sophia was asleep
in bed and Lauryn was in jammies – when Grandma Lee walked past
yesterday.  Several minutes went by before she realized that this
sweet elderly woman was wearing a hat and handbag and, regardless of our
previous offerings to help, was attempting to trek somewhere again. 
But despite feeling responsible to help her, Madge didn't dare leave
Lauryn and Sophia alone while she ran down the street to look for and
stop her.

 I was at work, a few blocks away, packing up my cubicle as our office
is moving.  I understood Madge's position but still felt obligated,
and compelled, to look out for, and find, this aged soul.  We don't
live close to our own parents and I often feel bad for not being in a
position to assist them, but find it consoling to be able to keep an eye
on our aged neighbour in their stead.

 After deducing the direction she most likely walked, as she uses
bus-stop benches as resting places, I ran off from work to a place on a
nearby road where I hoped I'd be able to find her.  It had been about
25 minutes since Madge had first seen her, and she didn't expect I'd be
able to find her.  But as I ran up to the corner where I was going to
start looking, I was amazed to see Grandma Lee standing next to the
stop-light pole, waiting to cross the street.

 I ran up and told her, "Hi, I'm your neighbour, are you ok?"  I was
glad to see both surprise and relief enter her face, and I quickly told
her that Brenda would come and we could drive her to her bank.  I had
a two-way radio with me and was able to talk to Madge at home to tell
her that I'd indeed found Grandma Lee, and where she could find us. 
(By then Lauryn had gotten dressed and Sophia had woken up.)

 I helped her shuffle back to a nearby bench where we waited for
Madge.  She told me of her plan and how she underestimated the
distance.  When she drives in her car, it seems so close, but she'd
only been able to walk 1/6 of the way.  She feels like if she gives
up some of her independence that she'll quickly lose all her
abilities.  For her age she does amazingly well, but I feel its
rather risky to live completely alone and independent, especially now
that she's losing the capability of caring for herself.  But, as with
many elderly people, she doesn't want to live in a "home," so for now
she'll keep on alone.  Hopefully we'll be able to keep her from
voyaging.
